README.md, before:

# Reproducible Research in R: An intermediate workshop on modern approaches and workflows to processing data

[![License: CC BY
4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4061900.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4061900)

## Description

Reproducibility and open scientific practices are increasingly being
requested or required of scientists and researchers, but training on
these practices has not kept pace. This course intends to help bridge
that gap and covers the fundamentals and workflow of data analysis in R.

This repository contains the lesson, lecture, and assignment material
for the course, including the website source files and other associated
course administration files.

For more detail on the course, check out the
[syllabus](https://r-cubed-intermediate.rostools.org/preamble/syllabus.html).

## Instructional Design

The lectures and lessons in this course are designed to be presented
primarily with a participatory live-coding approach. This involves an
instructor typing and running code in
[RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) in front of the class, while the
class follows along using their own computers. Challenges are
interspersed in the lesson material, allowing participants to
collaboratively work on smaller coding problems for a few minutes. All
lesson materials are provided ahead of time on the course website for
participants to refer to during lectures. Throughout the course,
participants work in small groups to complete the exercises together.

## Lesson content

The teaching material is found mainly in the project folders:

-   `preamble/`: Contains the syllabus and the schedule files.
-   `sessions/`: Contains the code-along teaching material, as well as
    associated links to the lecture slides.
-   `slides/`: Contains the slides, created as Revealjs HTML slides by
    using Quarto.

The website is generated from [Quarto](https://quarto.org), so follows
the file and folder structure conventions from that package.

## Installing necessary packages

Packages used and depended on for this course are included in the
`DESCRIPTION` file. To install the packages, run this function in the
root directory (where the `r-cubed-intermediate.Rproj` file is located:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak()
```

## Contributing

If you are interested in contributing to the course material, please
refer to the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md). Please note
that the project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By contributing to this project, you agree
to abide by its terms.

## Acknowledgements

Much of the lesson material was taken and modified from multiple sources
(most of which I've created, been involved in, or contributed to),
including:

-   [UofTCoders Reproducible Quantitative Methods for
    EEB](https://uoftcoders.github.io/rcourse/) (which I helped develop
    and is the inspiration and basis for this course)
-   [Software and Data Carpentry](https://carpentries.org/) workshop
    material
-   [UofTCoders
    material](https://uoftcoders.github.io/studyGroup/lessons/) and [AU
    CRU material](https://au-cru.github.io/site/material/), from the
    peer led and contributed lessons
-   Some material from my [*"Reproducible Quantitative Methods: Data
    analysis workflow using R"*](https://v1--dda-rcourse.netlify.com/)

Commit message:

style: :pencil2: rename "course" to "workshop"

README.md, after:

# Reproducible Research in R: An intermediate workshop on modern approaches and workflows to processing data

[![License: CC BY
4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4061900.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4061900)

## Description

Reproducibility and open scientific practices are increasingly being
requested or required of scientists and researchers, but training on
these practices has not kept pace. This workshop intends to help bridge
that gap and covers the fundamentals and workflow of data analysis in R.

This repository contains the lesson, lecture, and assignment material
for the workshop, including the website source files and other associated
workshop administration files.

For more detail on the workshop, check out the
[syllabus](https://r-cubed-intermediate.rostools.org/preamble/syllabus.html).

## Instructional Design

The lectures and lessons in this workshop are designed to be presented
primarily with a participatory live-coding approach. This involves an
instructor typing and running code in
[RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) in front of the class, while the
class follows along using their own computers. Challenges are
interspersed in the lesson material, allowing participants to
collaboratively work on smaller coding problems for a few minutes. All
lesson materials are provided ahead of time on the workshop website for
participants to refer to during lectures. Throughout the workshop,
participants work in small groups to complete the exercises together.

## Lesson content

The teaching material is found mainly in the project folders:

-   `preamble/`: Contains the syllabus and the schedule files.
-   `sessions/`: Contains the code-along teaching material, as well as
    associated links to the lecture slides.
-   `slides/`: Contains the slides, created as Revealjs HTML slides by
    using Quarto.

The website is generated from [Quarto](https://quarto.org), so follows
the file and folder structure conventions from that package.

## Installing necessary packages

Packages used and depended on for this workshop are included in the
`DESCRIPTION` file. To install the packages, run this function in the
root directory (where the `r-cubed-intermediate.Rproj` file is located:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak()
```

## Contributing

If you are interested in contributing to the workshop material, please
refer to the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md). Please note
that the project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By contributing to this project, you agree
to abide by its terms.

## Acknowledgements

Much of the lesson material was taken and modified from multiple sources
(most of which I've created, been involved in, or contributed to),
including:

-   [UofTCoders Reproducible Quantitative Methods for
    EEB](https://uoftcoders.github.io/rcourse/) (which I helped develop
    and is the inspiration and basis for this workshop)
-   [Software and Data Carpentry](https://carpentries.org/) workshop
    material
-   [UofTCoders
    material](https://uoftcoders.github.io/studyGroup/lessons/) and [AU
    CRU material](https://au-cru.github.io/site/material/), from the
    peer led and contributed lessons
-   Some material from my [*"Reproducible Quantitative Methods: Data
    analysis workflow using R"*](https://v1--dda-rcourse.netlify.com/)
